Doc 6320 cluster sso follow up (#17370)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/v23.1/sso-sql.md

---
title: Cluster Single Sign-on (SSO) using JSON web tokens (JWTs)
summary: Overview of Cluster Single Sign-on (SSO) for CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.core }}, review of authenticating users, configuring required cluster settings.
toc: true
docs_area: manage
---

CockroachDB clusters allow users to authenticate with Single Sign-on (SSO), both to the [DB Console]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-overview.md %}), and for SQL client access, using OpenID connect (OIDC).

Cluster Single Sign-On (SSO) enables users to access the SQL interface of a CockroachDB cluster (whether provisioned on CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} or self-hosted) with the full security of Single Sign-On (SSO), and the convenience of being able to choose from a variety of cloud-based or customer-managed identity providers (IdPs).

> {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters can provision their users with JWTs via the ConsoleDB. This allows users to authenticate to a cluster by signing in to their IdP (for example, Okta or Google) with a link embedded in the DB Console. This flow provisions a JWT which can be copied out of the DB Console UI and used in a SQL connection string to authenticate to the cluster. This applies for both {{ site.data.products.core }} {{ site.data.products.enterprise }} and {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster, but is not possible with {{ site.data.products.serverless }} clusters, as they do not have ConsoleDB access. It is possible to use [Cluster Single Sign-on (SSO) using `ccloud` and the CockroachDB Cloud Console](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/cloud-sso-sql) with {{ site.data.products.serverless }} clusters.

Author: haha yeah thanks good catch.

        },
        {
          "alg": "RS256",
          "n": "8ASqcDDTYmFx53uAkWlmqx8qIx0WQacaswAAb7xGx9XL2T71VPtKKgPqoimXzj4fXT2F3opIgOQgGKxkxw2QrAAoejdIud5URrZLRponmbMQO3erG5sd8PC29rjekX8_hvX_AMT3zU8JLKVLFR0xJmFdmIomnarpEvWKmG0SNvbuVveprsve0n1W35uodcRe417vlTNnH9j8fesQekvFf8tIWbHouXDg3B1km4gqZBbQ_MWvGriGBY5sfr7A2d0iNe89Aje7pz1RFLUFOu-u_NyD6RwL6qo4_yetAYIzm02a2KAAq03YPs2LHMVQmkh1LtyeuA6bvf9146cAFY4BCQ",
          "use": "sig",
          "e": "AQAB",
          "kty": "RSA",
          "kid": "05150a1320b9395b05716877376928509bab44ac"
        }
      ]
    }';
    ~~~

1. Configure token generation.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
In order for this feature to work DB Console SSO and cluster SSO must both be configured with the same IDP.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

The `use_token` field determines which part of the received OIDC credentials the cluster uses to [determine the user’s identity](#how-cockroachdb-determines-the-sql-username-from-a-jwt).

It can be set to either `id_token` or `access_token`. Here we set it to `id_token` because ...

> In another examples where ... we would set it to `access_token`. Okta I'm guessing?

Author: @kpatron-cockroachlabs

Author: I just don't know this stuff. please provide the knowledge, kind sir

Reviewer: It just has to do with the mechanics of how the IDP generates tokens. Sometimes the access tokens are easier to map and contain the information you want, sometimes it is the access token. It just depends on the IDP and how you want to configure it.

Author: How does one tell which to use in a particular case. When I was setting it up for GCP, I only knew because @matthewtodd told me. Should we just list a few use cases, like google, okta, etc.,? This is ultimately about whether you ultimately want to use email or ID to identify the user via the identity mapping, correct? just kind of spelling out the path the info?

Author: how do you like... inspect a token to check? sorry if that's a dumb question
just trying to think through things from the user perspective, and that seems the most important question: how would I figure it out if I didn't already know and was trying to set this up?

Reviewer: Basically per IDP it might not contain the right fields (email, audience, etc) on one token or the other. It is very dependent on how you configure your IDP. Basically you either need to read your IDP docs, try one then the other, or inspect the token. Once you have a token you can base 64 decode the middle bit (between the two periods) to see what information is included. This is our internal link that may be helpful https://cockroachlabs.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/MC/pages/2825683043/Debugging+Cluster+SSO#Checking-the-contents-of-a-token

Author: ok, thank you, hopefully this is helpful enough

---
title: Cluster Single Sign-on (SSO) using JSON web tokens (JWTs)
summary: Overview of Cluster Single Sign-on (SSO) for CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.core }}, review of authenticating users, configuring required cluster settings.
toc: true
docs_area: manage
---

> CockroachDB clusters allow users to authenticate with Single Sign-on (SSO), both to the [DB Console]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-overview.md %}), and for SQL client access, using OpenID connect (OIDC).

Reviewer: Same note as above. Cluster SSO doesn't use OIDC.

> Cluster Single Sign-On (SSO) enables users to access the SQL interface of a CockroachDB cluster (whether provisioned on CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} or self-hosted) with the full security of Single Sign-On (SSO), and the convenience of being able to choose from a variety of cloud-based or customer-managed identity providers (IdPs). This applies for both {{ site.data.products.core }} {{ site.data.products.enterprise }} and {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} customers.

Reviewer: Is serverless intentionally being excluded from the last sentence? It works in serverless.

Author: Is this better?

Reviewer: Maybe I'm not following what the last sentence:`{{ site.data.products.core }} {{ site.data.products.enterprise }} and {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}` renders to. My guess was that it would exclude serverless and say something like crdb enterprise and dedicated. Am I off base?

Reviewer: I think the last sentence is still missing serverless unless I'm missing

Users can authenticate to a cluster by signing in to their IdP (for example, Okta or Google) with a link embedded in the DB Console. This flow provisions a JWT which can be copied out of the DB Console UI and used in a SQL connection string to authenticate to the cluster.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
You might also be looking for:

- [Cluster Single Sign-on (SSO) using `ccloud` and the CockroachDB Cloud Console](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/cloud-sso-sql).
- [Single Sign-on (SSO) for DB Console](sso-db-console.html)
{{site.data.alerts.end}}
**Prerequisites**

- You must have your cluster pre-configured for OIDC/SSO authentication. Refer to: [Single Sign-on (SSO) for DB Console](sso-db-console.html)

- SQL users/credentials:

> 	- Your SQL user must have the ability to update cluster settings. This permission is provided by either the [`admin` role]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#admin-role) or the [`MODIFYCLUSTERSETTING` role option]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#supported-privileges). This is required to designate an IdP as an external token issuer.

Reviewer: Same not above about it not just being role options.

	- A SQL user that corresponds with your external identity must be pre-provisioned on the cluster. To provision such users, you must have access to the [`admin` role]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#admin-role).

## Authenticate to your cluster

For access to a CockroachDB cluster, an identity in your external IdP must correspond to a SQL user on the target cluster.

The mapping from IdP identity to SQL username is defined in your cluster's [identity mapping](#identity-map-configuration).

Refer to: [Create a SQL user]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-user.md %}).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
This example uses [`cockroach sql`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cockroach-sql.md %}), but you can use any SQL client that supports sufficiently long passwords.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. Obtain a token.

> Go to your cluster's DB Console and click the **generate token** button

Reviewer: I'm not sure about throwing them directly at this UI. It will only work in some circumstances and they have to fully set up DB Console SSO as well as some bonus cluster settings for it to work.

Author: added some signposting

1. Use the token in place of a password in your database connection string.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~shell
cockroach sql --url "postgresql://{SQL_USERNAME}:{JWT_TOKEN}@{CLUSTER_HOST}:26257?options=--crdb:jwt_auth_enabled=true" --certs-dir={CLUSTER_CERT_DIR}
~~~

~~~txt
Welcome to the cockroach SQL interface...
~~~

## Configure your cluster for SSO

**Prerequisites**:

> You must have the ability to update your cluster settings, which requires a SQL user either the [`admin` role]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#admin-role) or the `MODIFYCLUSTERSETTING` role option.

Reviewer: same note as elsewhere about the system level privilege.

### Cluster Settings

| Cluster Setting | Description 
|-----------------|------ 
| `server.jwt_authentication.enabled` | Defaults to `false`, must be set to `true` to enable embedded JWT generation.
| `server.jwt_authentication.jwks` | A list of public signing keys for allowed IdPs; must include your IdP's key. 
| `server.jwt_authentication.issuers` | A list of accepted token issuers; must include your IdP.

> | `server.jwt_authentication.audience` | A list of audiences (or targets) for authentication, most relevantly, clusters.

Reviewer: This sentence is a little weird. It's the audience that refers to this cluster. So tokens with that audience will be accepted.

| `server.jwt_authentication.claim` | Which JWT field will be used to determine the user identity in CockroachDB; normally set either to `email`, or `sub` (subject).
| `server.oidc_authentication.generate_cluster_sso_token.enabled` | Enables token generation; must be set to `true`.
|`server.oidc_authentication.generate_cluster_sso_token.use_token`| This selects which part of the received OIDC credentials to use to [determine the user’s identity](#how-cockroachdb-determines-the-sql-username-from-a-jwt). Normally this should be set to `id_token`.
|`server.identity_map.configuration`| Takes an [Identity Map configuration](#identity-map-configuration)

> | `server.sql_host` | This display value informs users the host for their SQL connections. Default: `localhost`.

Reviewer: Are these two right? I think they need oidc_authentication.generate_cluster_sso_token as well.

| `server.sql_port` | his display value informs users the port for their SQL connections. Default: `26257`.

### Update your cluster settings

You can update your cluster settings with the [`SET CLUSTER SETTING`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/set-cluster-setting.md %}) SQL statement.

You can also view all of your cluster settings 

1. `enable` JWT SQL authentication to your cluster.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~shell
    SET CLUSTER SETTING server.jwt_authentication.enabled = true;
    ~~~

1. Add your IdP's public signing key to your cluster's list of accepted signing JSON web keys (JWKS), under the `jwks` setting. This is a [JWK](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7517) formatted single key or key set, containing the public keys for SSO token issuers/IdPs that will be accepted by your cluster.

>     By default, your cluster's configuration will contain the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }}'s own public key, allowing CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} to serve as an IdP. When modifying this cluster setting, you must include the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} public key in the key set. Failing to do so will lock out console SSO users and prevent maintenance access by the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} managed service, leading to unintended consequences.

Reviewer: This section is mostly wrong. In cloud if you use ccloud then the key will be included. If you change it then ccloud sso login won't work.

Author: better?

Reviewer: This is looking the same to me?

          "e": "AQAB",
          "use": "sig",
          "n": "pP-rCe4jkKX6mq8yP1GcBZcxJzmxKWicHHor1S3Q49u6Oe-bQsk5NsK5mdR7Y7liGV9n0ikXSM42dYKQdxbhKA-7--fFon5isJoHr4fIwL2CCwVm5QWlK37q6PiH2_F1M0hRorHfkCb4nI56ZvfygvuOH4LIS82OzIgmsYbeEfwDRpeMSxWKwlpa3pX3GZ6jG7FgzJGBvmBkagpgsa2JZdyU4gEGMOkHdSzi5Ii-6RGfFLhhI1OMxC9P2JaU5yjMN2pikfFIq_dbpm75yNUGpWJNVywtrlNvvJfA74UMN_lVCAaSR0A03BUMg6ljB65gFllpKF224uWBA8tpjngwKQ"
        },
        {
          "alg": "RS256",
          "n": "8ASqcDDTYmFx53uAkWlmqx8qIx0WQacaswAAb7xGx9XL2T71VPtKKgPqoimXzj4fXT2F3opIgOQgGKxkxw2QrAAoejdIud5URrZLRponmbMQO3erG5sd8PC29rjekX8_hvX_AMT3zU8JLKVLFR0xJmFdmIomnarpEvWKmG0SNvbuVveprsve0n1W35uodcRe417vlTNnH9j8fesQekvFf8tIWbHouXDg3B1km4gqZBbQ_MWvGriGBY5sfr7A2d0iNe89Aje7pz1RFLUFOu-u_NyD6RwL6qo4_yetAYIzm02a2KAAq03YPs2LHMVQmkh1LtyeuA6bvf9146cAFY4BCQ",
          "use": "sig",
          "e": "AQAB",
          "kty": "RSA",
          "kid": "05150a1320b9395b05716877376928509bab44ac"
        }
      ]
    }';
    ~~~

1.  Add your IdP's formal `issuer` name (this must match the `issuer` field in the JWT itself) to your cluster's list of accepted token issuers.

    {{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}

>     Any IdP that is configured on your cluster can grant SQL access to your cluster, and therefore any data that is stored within. This configuration is therefore critical for security.

Reviewer: This is the wrong section to present this warning for. It is more apt for the JWKS section if you want to display it.

>   	The default value for {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters is CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }}. When modifying this cluster setting, you must include CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} in the new value. Failing to do so can prevent maintenance access by the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} managed service, leading to unintended consequences. It can also break the cluster SSO for human users to this cluster.

Reviewer: same note as above.

    ~~~

1. `server.jwt_authentication.audience`

    The ID of your cluster as specified by the IdP, or a JSON array of such names. One of the audience values here must match the `audience` claim of an access token, or it will be rejected.

    {{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
    Many third-party token issuers, including GCP and Azure, will by default create tokens with a generic default audience. It is best practice to limit the scope of access tokens as much as possible, so if possible, we recommend issuing tokens with only the required audience value corresponding to the `audience` configured on the cluster.

    By extension, if your provider allows you to specify scopes or permissions on the token, you should specify these as restrictively as possible, while still allowing for the functions intended for the service account or user.
    {{site.data.alerts.end}}

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~shell
    SET CLUSTER SETTING server.jwt_authentication.audience = '984901724939-njig7lkv7k724rbv2hllvr4of8ul7th7.apps.googleusercontent.com';
    ~~~

1. `server.jwt_authentication.claim`

>     The value of `email` indicates the email field in the JWT.

Reviewer: This section seems a little brief.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~shell
    SET CLUSTER SETTING server.jwt_authentication.claim = 'email';
    ~~~

> 1. `server.jwt_authentication.jwks`

Reviewer: Is this largely a duplicate of above?

Author: yes, thanks, tried to consolidate things.

          "e": "AQAB",
          "use": "sig",
          "n": "pP-rCe4jkKX6mq8yP1GcBZcxJzmxKWicHHor1S3Q49u6Oe-bQsk5NsK5mdR7Y7liGV9n0ikXSM42dYKQdxbhKA-7--fFon5isJoHr4fIwL2CCwVm5QWlK37q6PiH2_F1M0hRorHfkCb4nI56ZvfygvuOH4LIS82OzIgmsYbeEfwDRpeMSxWKwlpa3pX3GZ6jG7FgzJGBvmBkagpgsa2JZdyU4gEGMOkHdSzi5Ii-6RGfFLhhI1OMxC9P2JaU5yjMN2pikfFIq_dbpm75yNUGpWJNVywtrlNvvJfA74UMN_lVCAaSR0A03BUMg6ljB65gFllpKF224uWBA8tpjngwKQ"
        },
        {
          "alg": "RS256",
          "n": "8ASqcDDTYmFx53uAkWlmqx8qIx0WQacaswAAb7xGx9XL2T71VPtKKgPqoimXzj4fXT2F3opIgOQgGKxkxw2QrAAoejdIud5URrZLRponmbMQO3erG5sd8PC29rjekX8_hvX_AMT3zU8JLKVLFR0xJmFdmIomnarpEvWKmG0SNvbuVveprsve0n1W35uodcRe417vlTNnH9j8fesQekvFf8tIWbHouXDg3B1km4gqZBbQ_MWvGriGBY5sfr7A2d0iNe89Aje7pz1RFLUFOu-u_NyD6RwL6qo4_yetAYIzm02a2KAAq03YPs2LHMVQmkh1LtyeuA6bvf9146cAFY4BCQ",
          "use": "sig",
          "e": "AQAB",
          "kty": "RSA",
          "kid": "05150a1320b9395b05716877376928509bab44ac"
        }
      ]
    }';
    ~~~

1. Configure token generation.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~shell
SET CLUSTER SETTING server.oidc_authentication.generate_cluster_sso_token.enabled = true;

> SET CLUSTER SETTING server.oidc_authentication.generate_cluster_sso_token.use_token = id_token;

Reviewer: I think this section needs more help. In order for this feature to work DB Console SSO and cluster SSO must both be configured with the same IDP. Also it might be saying that the use_token field is either `id_token` or `access_token` and what the difference means.

Author: thanks

Author: I need more help spelling this out please.

Reviewer: Which part? Would it be worth grabbing some time to talk synchronously?

Author: We could. Just updated the text with '...' indicating where I need help. basically where you indicated.

Author: Hopefully this lies somewhere along the intersection of accurate and helpful. it's a tricky case.

~~~

## How CockroachDB determines the SQL username from a JWT

> 1. `server.oidc_authentication.generate_cluster_sso_token.use_token` determines which token to look at (`id_token` or `access_token`).

Reviewer: I think you are confusing two different things in this section. Cluster SSO just uses the claim and the identity_map. This cluster setting just tells the UI which token to send to you which you assert has all the right claims for cluster SSO.

Reviewer: I'm seeing "The `use_token` field determines which part of the received OIDC credentials the cluster uses to [determine the user’s identity](#how-cockroachdb-determines-the-sql-username-from-a-jwt)." now which doesn't seem quite right. It's which token gets displayed to a user.

Author: Hmm, I definitely need more help with "How CockroachDB determines the SQL username from a JWT", is this incorrect?
1. `server.oidc_authentication.generate_cluster_sso_token.use_token` determines which token to look at (`id_token` or `access_token`).
1. `server.jwt_authentication.claim` determines which claim in that token, defaulting to picking the token’s subject, but also potentially using email.
1. `server.identity_map.configuration` maps that claim (along with the token’s issuer) to a SQL username.

Please clarify, thanks

Author: @kpatron-cockroachlabs just wanted to follow up here. I think if the current copy is good I'm ready to merge, but it seems like I might have some misinformation here?

Reviewer: Use_token is only relevant to the `generate_cluster_sso_token` flow and so while it's kinda true that it flows through the claim and configuration, that is only relevant for the thing that is generated to the user, NOT anything that directly logs in.

1. `server.identity_map.configuration` maps that claim (along with the token’s issuer) to a SQL username.

## Identity Map configuration

Th cluster setting `server.identity_map.configuration` holds your cluster's identity map configuration, which tells your cluster how to map external identities to SQL users. This is functionally similar to PostgreSQL's [User Name Map](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/auth-username-maps.html).

The format of an identity map configuration is a space-separated triple consisting of:

`<external issuer> <external user ID> <SQL username>`

Examples:

- `https://accounts.google.com /^(.*)@cockroachlabs\.com$ \1`

    Maps every cockroachlabs email to a SQL user with the same username (i.e. the part of the email address to the left of the `@`), for example `docs@cockroachlabs.com` becomes `docs` |

- `https://accounts.google.com 1232316645658094244789 roach`

    Maps a single external identity with the hard-coded ID to the SQL user `roach`   |

- `https://accounts.google.com   /^([9-0]*)$   gcp_\1`

>     Maps each GCP-provisioned service account to a SQL user named `gcp_{ GCP user ID }`, e.g., `gcp_1234567` for a service account with ID `1234567`. 

Reviewer: It might be worth including that you can have multiple matches for the same line and picking between them is done by the SQL username in the connection.

Author: is this correct @kpatron-cockroachlabs ?

Reviewer: LGTM

In another examples where ... we would set it to `access_token`. Okta I'm guessing?

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~shell
SET CLUSTER SETTING server.oidc_authentication.generate_cluster_sso_token.enabled = true;
SET CLUSTER SETTING server.oidc_authentication.generate_cluster_sso_token.use_token = id_token;
~~~

## How CockroachDB determines the SQL username from a JWT

1. `server.oidc_authentication.generate_cluster_sso_token.use_token` determines which token to look at (`id_token` or `access_token`).
1. `server.jwt_authentication.claim` determines which claim in that token, defaulting to picking the token’s subject, but also potentially using email.
1. `server.identity_map.configuration` maps that claim (along with the token’s issuer) to a SQL username.

## Identity Map configuration

Th cluster setting `server.identity_map.configuration` holds your cluster's identity map configuration, which tells your cluster how to map external identities to SQL users. This is functionally similar to PostgreSQL's [User Name Map](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/auth-username-maps.html).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

> Each line potentially maps many external identities to one SQL user, and a configuration can contain multiple lines, so the mapping can be many-to-many. The cluster checks to see if the SQL username given in the connection request matches the identity in the token by any of the lines in the Identity Map.

Author: @kpatron-cockroachlabs is this correct?

Reviewer: Looks correct to me.

- [Configure a cluster for cluster single sign-on using JWTs](#configure-your-cluster-for-sso)
- [Authenticate to your cluster](#authenticate-to-your-cluster)

**Prerequisites**

- You must have your cluster pre-configured for OIDC/SSO authentication for DB Console. Use the [Single Sign-on (SSO) for DB Console](sso-db-console.html) guide to set this up.

- SQL users/credentials:

    - You must have the ability to update your cluster settings, which can be achieved in several ways. Refer to [`SET CLUSTER SETTING`: Required permissions](set-cluster-setting.html#required-privileges)
.
    - A SQL user that corresponds with your external identity must be pre-provisioned on the cluster. To provision such users, you must have access to the [`admin` role]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#admin-role).

## Configure your cluster for SSO

**Prerequisites**:

You must have the ability to update your cluster settings, which can be achieved in several ways. Refer to [`SET CLUSTER SETTING`: Required permissions](set-cluster-setting.html#required-privileges)

### Cluster Settings

> You must configure the [cluster settings]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cluster-settings.md %} in the following table to enable JWT authentication to your cluster. Refer to the [Update your cluster settings](#update-your-cluster-settings) section to configure your cluster settings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must configure the [cluster settings]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cluster-settings.md %}) in the following table to enable JWT authentication to your cluster. Refer to the [Update your cluster settings](#update-your-cluster-settings) section to configure your cluster settings.
```

|`server.oidc_authentication.generate_cluster_sso_token.use_token`| Selects which part of the received OIDC credentials to display.
|`server.identity_map.configuration`| Takes an [Identity Map configuration](#identity-map-configuration).
| `server.sql_host` | This display value informs users the host for their SQL connections. Default: `localhost`.
| `server.sql_port` | This display value informs users the port for their SQL connections. Default: `26257`.

### Update your cluster settings

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
In order for this feature to work, [Single Sign-on (SSO) for DB Console](sso-db-console.html) and cluster SSO must both be configured with the same IDP.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

You can update your cluster settings with the [`SET CLUSTER SETTING`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/set-cluster-setting.md %}) SQL statement.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
You can also view all of your cluster settings in the DB Console.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. `enable` JWT SQL authentication to your cluster.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~sql
    SET CLUSTER SETTING server.jwt_authentication.enabled = true;
    ~~~

> 1.  Add your IdP's formal `issuer` name (this must match the `issuer` field in the JWT itself) to your cluster's list of accepted token issuers.

Reviewer 2: A couple small indentation problems here are leading to the content not rendering properly and the numbering not working

          "e": "AQAB",
          "kty": "RSA",
          "kid": "7c0b6913fe13820a333399ace426e70535a9a0bf",
          "n": "lWXY0XOj_ikSIDIvGOhfuRhQJAAj6BWsbbZ6P-PXRclzV32-QLB4GZHPPcH37Lou5pQsTQPvTETAfCLnglIRSbP8x1zA5tUakRlm5RiGF4kcWh5k60x8u0Uslx-d6EueKuY-KLHUVDuMULlHkYAScIdYnXz-Cnr6PFZj8RQezzdPVPH53Q8a_Z9b-vpGzsMS5gszITb-72OQNokojXdPVctl5WzSx-JnWbJxPiwHx_dSWgmTnyiYrZLqrqfampGdroaamtIXy0W8CAe0uCqcD1LunpfX-Q-RD1IycxnEaXSuUKhNhCcxtHWrozEyeD23Zja2WlcvHdYuTzyrvrvS9Q"
        },
        {
          "kid": "6f7254101f56e41cf35c9926de84a2d552b4c6f1",
          "e": "AQAB",
          "alg": "RS256",
          "use": "sig",
          "n": "oUriU8GqbRw-avcMn95DGW1cpZR1IoM6L7krfrWvLSSCcSX6Ig117o25Yk7QWBiJpaPV0FbP7Y5-DmThZ3SaF0AXW-3BsKPEXfFfeKVc6vBqk3t5mKlNEowjdvNTSzoOXO5UIHwsXaxiJlbMRalaFEUm-2CKgmXl1ss_yGh1OHkfnBiGsfQUndKoHiZuDzBMGw8Sf67am_Ok-4FShK0NuR3-q33aB_3Z7obC71dejSLWFOEcKUVCaw6DGVuLog3x506h1QQ1r0FXKOQxnmqrRgpoHqGSouuG35oZve1vgCU4vLZ6EAgBAbC0KL35I7_0wUDSMpiAvf7iZxzJVbspkQ",
          "kty": "RSA"
        }
      ]
    }';
    ~~~

1. Set your Identity Map. Refer to [Identity Map configuration](#identity-map-configuration).

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}

>     ~~~shell

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ~~~sql
```

    SET CLUSTER SETTING server.identity_map.configuration = 'https://accounts.google.com /^(.*)@cockroachlabs\.com$ \1'  ;
    ~~~

1. Enable token generation.

    This will also cause the token generation button to appear in the UI.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}

>     ~~~shell

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ~~~sql
```

    SET CLUSTER SETTING server.oidc_authentication.generate_cluster_sso_token.enabled = true;
    ~~~

1. Set `use_token`, which determines how the user's identity will be displayed.

    It can be set to either `id_token` or `access_token`, depending on the structure of the your JWT as determined in your IDP configuration.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}

>     ~~~shell

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ~~~sql
```

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
This example uses [`cockroach sql`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cockroach-sql.md %}), but you can use any SQL client that supports sufficiently long passwords.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. Obtain a token.

    Go to your cluster's DB Console and click the **Generate JWT auth token for cluster SSO** button

1. Use the token in place of a password in your database connection string.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~shell
    cockroach sql --url "postgresql://{SQL_USERNAME}:{JWT_TOKEN}@{CLUSTER_HOST}:26257?options=--crdb:jwt_auth_enabled=true" --certs-dir={CLUSTER_CERT_DIR}
    ~~~

    ~~~txt
    Welcome to the cockroach SQL interface...
    ~~~

## Configure your cluster for SSO

**Prerequisites**:

You must have the ability to update your cluster settings, which can be achieved in several ways. Refer to [`SET CLUSTER SETTING`: Required permissions](set-cluster-setting.html#required-privileges)

> ### Cluster Settings

Reviewer 2: Before this section, what about adding the same paragraph about using the "Update cluster settings" section?

Author: Sorry, I don't know what paragraph you mean.

| Cluster Setting | Description 
|-----------------|------ 
| `server.jwt_authentication.enabled` | Defaults to `false`, must be set to `true` to enable embedded JWT generation.
| `server.jwt_authentication.jwks` | A list of public signing keys for allowed IdPs; must include your IdP's key. 
| `server.jwt_authentication.issuers` | A list of accepted token issuers; must include your IdP.
| `server.jwt_authentication.audience` | This must match `server.oidc_authentication.client_id`; refer to [Single Sign-on (SSO) for DB Console](sso-db-console.html).
| `server.jwt_authentication.claim` | Which JWT field will be used to determine the user identity in CockroachDB; normally set either to `email`, or `sub` (subject).
| `server.oidc_authentication.generate_cluster_sso_token.enabled` | Enables token generation; must be set to `true`.
|`server.oidc_authentication.generate_cluster_sso_token.use_token`| Selects which part of the received OIDC credentials to display.

> |`server.identity_map.configuration`| Takes an [Identity Map configuration](#identity-map-configuration)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`server.identity_map.configuration`| Takes an [Identity Map configuration](#identity-map-configuration).
```

| `server.sql_host` | This display value informs users the host for their SQL connections. Default: `localhost`.
| `server.sql_port` | This display value informs users the port for their SQL connections. Default: `26257`.

### Update your cluster settings

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}

> In order for this feature to work, [Single Sign-on (SSO) for DB Console](sso-db-console.html) and cluster SSO must both be configured with the same IDP.

Reviewer 2: This doesn't seem like a tip? My immediate thought was in the prerequisites?

Author: Hmm prereq doesn't make sense to me, since it can't be true/false until after you do the tutorial... I see it as a troubleshooting tip, since it's a way someone could easily be messing things up and not seeing why. Does that read to you?

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

You can update your cluster settings with the [`SET CLUSTER SETTING`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/set-cluster-setting.md %}) SQL statement.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}

> You can also view all of your cluster settings in the DB Console...

Reviewer 2: This is a good tip, but looks like you need to finish where users can find them on the DB Console.

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. `enable` JWT SQL authentication to your cluster.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}

>     ~~~shell

Reviewer 2: Need to update all the shell syntax on this page to `sql` for the correct prompt

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~shell
    SET CLUSTER SETTING server.jwt_authentication.claim = 'email';
    ~~~

1. `server.jwt_authentication.jwks`

    Add your IdP's public signing key to your cluster's list of accepted signing JSON web keys (JWKS), under the `jwks` setting. This is a [JWK](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7517) formatted single key or key set, containing the public keys for SSO token issuers/IdPs that will be accepted by your cluster. This list must include a given IdP, or the cluster will reject JWTs issued by it. IdPs serve their public certificates and other required information at `https://{ domain }/.well-known/openid-configuration`.
    
    {{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
    IdPs such as Google rotate their signing keys periodically. You must update your cluster with a new signing key before the previous one expires, or your SQL clients will be unable to connect with cluster SSO. We recommend updating this cluster setting with the current key daily to avoid this scenario.
    {{site.data.alerts.end}}

    {{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
    <b>{{ site.data.products.db }} {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} customers:</b> 

>     By default, your cluster's configuration will contain the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }}'s own public key, allowing CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} to serve as an IdP. This is required for [SSO with `ccloud`](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/cloud-sso-sql). When modifying this cluster setting, you must include the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} public key in the key set, or SSO with `ccloud` will no longer work.

Reviewer 2: I would possibly take this out of the tip box, and just have inline. Or maybe a note. I feel like we want the warning here to really stand out, if know what I mean. I would even bold **We recommend updating this cluster setting with the current key daily to avoid this scenario.** in the warning.

          "e": "AQAB",
          "kty": "RSA",
          "kid": "7c0b6913fe13820a333399ace426e70535a9a0bf",
          "n": "lWXY0XOj_ikSIDIvGOhfuRhQJAAj6BWsbbZ6P-PXRclzV32-QLB4GZHPPcH37Lou5pQsTQPvTETAfCLnglIRSbP8x1zA5tUakRlm5RiGF4kcWh5k60x8u0Uslx-d6EueKuY-KLHUVDuMULlHkYAScIdYnXz-Cnr6PFZj8RQezzdPVPH53Q8a_Z9b-vpGzsMS5gszITb-72OQNokojXdPVctl5WzSx-JnWbJxPiwHx_dSWgmTnyiYrZLqrqfampGdroaamtIXy0W8CAe0uCqcD1LunpfX-Q-RD1IycxnEaXSuUKhNhCcxtHWrozEyeD23Zja2WlcvHdYuTzyrvrvS9Q"
        },
        {
          "kid": "6f7254101f56e41cf35c9926de84a2d552b4c6f1",
          "e": "AQAB",
          "alg": "RS256",
          "use": "sig",
          "n": "oUriU8GqbRw-avcMn95DGW1cpZR1IoM6L7krfrWvLSSCcSX6Ig117o25Yk7QWBiJpaPV0FbP7Y5-DmThZ3SaF0AXW-3BsKPEXfFfeKVc6vBqk3t5mKlNEowjdvNTSzoOXO5UIHwsXaxiJlbMRalaFEUm-2CKgmXl1ss_yGh1OHkfnBiGsfQUndKoHiZuDzBMGw8Sf67am_Ok-4FShK0NuR3-q33aB_3Z7obC71dejSLWFOEcKUVCaw6DGVuLog3x506h1QQ1r0FXKOQxnmqrRgpoHqGSouuG35oZve1vgCU4vLZ6EAgBAbC0KL35I7_0wUDSMpiAvf7iZxzJVbspkQ",
          "kty": "RSA"
        }
      ]
    }';
    ~~~

1. Set your Identity Map. Refer to [Identity Map configuration](#identity-map-configuration).

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}

> ~~~shell

Reviewer 2: Need to indent this code block as it is messing up the numbering.

Reviewer 2: Indent code blocks and sentence from here until the end of the page.

1. `server.jwt_authentication.claim` determines which field to use to identify the external user, i.e. which must match a SQL user via the identity map.
1. `server.identity_map.configuration` maps that claim (along with the token’s issuer) to a SQL username.

## Identity Map configuration

Th cluster setting `server.identity_map.configuration` holds your cluster's identity map configuration, which tells your cluster how to map external identities to SQL users. This is functionally similar to PostgreSQL's [User Name Map](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/auth-username-maps.html).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
Each line potentially maps many external identities to one SQL user, and a configuration can contain multiple lines, so the mapping can be many-to-many. The cluster checks to see if the SQL username given in the connection request matches the identity in the token by any of the lines in the Identity Map.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

The format of an identity map configuration is a space-separated triple consisting of:

`<external issuer> <external user ID> <SQL username>`

Examples:

- `https://accounts.google.com /^(.*)@cockroachlabs\.com$ \1`

>     Maps every cockroachlabs email to a SQL user with the same username (i.e. the part of the email address to the left of the `@`), for example `docs@cockroachlabs.com` becomes `docs`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Maps every `cockroachlabs` email to a SQL user with the same username. That is, the part of the email address to the left of the `@`). For example, `docs@cockroachlabs.com` becomes `docs`.
```

- `https://accounts.google.com 1232316645658094244789 roach`

    Maps a single external identity with the hard-coded ID to the SQL user `roach`  

- `https://accounts.google.com   /^([9-0]*)$   gcp_\1`

>     Maps each GCP-provisioned service account to a SQL user named `gcp_{ GCP user ID }`, e.g., `gcp_1234567` for a service account with ID `1234567`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Maps each GCP-provisioned service account to a SQL user named `gcp_{ GCP user ID }`. For example, `gcp_1234567` for a service account with ID `1234567`.
```
